p8105_hw2_fp2513
================

\##Problem 1

**Read and clean the data; retain line, station, name, station latitude
/ longitude, routes served, entry, vending, entrance type, and ADA
compliance. Convert the entry variable from character (YES vs NO) to a
logical variable (the ifelse or case_match function may be useful).**

``` r
NYC_Transit_df = 
  read_csv(file = "NYC_Transit_Subway_Entrance_And_Exit_Data.csv", 
           na = c("NA", ",", ".")) %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  select(line:entry, vending, ada) %>% 
  mutate(
    entry = 
      case_match(
        entry, 
        "NO" ~ FALSE, 
        "YES" ~ TRUE),
    entry = as.logical(entry))
```

    ## Warning: One or more parsing issues, call `problems()` on your data frame for details,
    ## e.g.:
    ##   dat <- vroom(...)
    ##   problems(dat)

    ## Rows: 1868 Columns: 32
    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr (22): Division, Line, Station Name, Route1, Route2, Route3, Route4, Rout...
    ## dbl  (8): Station Latitude, Station Longitude, Route8, Route9, Route10, Rout...
    ## lgl  (2): ADA, Free Crossover
    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

**Write a short paragraph about this dataset – explain briefly what
variables the dataset contains, describe your data cleaning steps so
far, and give the dimension (rows x columns) of the resulting dataset.
Are these data tidy?**

After importing and intial cleaning of the data, the NYC_Transit_df
contains 1868 observations (each having its own row; 1868 rows) and 19
variables (19 columns). The data cleaning steps so far include: 1. First
defining the cells with NA, . and empty cells are used to indicate a
missing value. 2. Then using `janitor::clean_names()` to clean up the
variable column names to a consistent lower snake case. 3. Next,
`select()` specified the columns that I wanted to keep, including the
range from line to entry, and additional vending and ada columns 4.
Lastly, `mutate()` converted the inputs in the entry column from
characters to logical variables. Specifically, using `case_match` to
chnage every “YES” and “NO” input respectively became “TRUE” and “FALSE”
instead.

The data is clean in respects to ensuring that every variable have their
own column, every observation has its own row and every box / input is
just some combination of the variable and observation. The data is
however not clean in respects to redundant columns. There are 11 columns
used for route 1 to 11 where as ‘Route number’ should be a distinct
column for each observation. There should also be an additional column
called ‘Route name’. (Specify the route number then which the name of
that route is in two columns).

After cleaning the data according to the instructions, there are also
rows of identical data inputs. We could consider evaluating the
duplicates in a new column to indicate how many times it was repeated.
